### 1. What is NLTK ❓

NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) contains libraries and programs for applied mathematics language process. It's one amongst the foremost powerful IP libraries, that contains packages to form machines perceive human language and reply there to with an acceptable response.

It helps practitioners by providing easy-to-use interfaces to over fifty lexical and corpora resources, with text process libraries for classification, tokenization, tagging, stemming, parsing, and linguistics reasoning, wrappers for industrial-grade NLP libraries. The corpora of information comprises data from numerous applications over the internet; for text analytics, we are able to get knowledge. By analyzing tweets on Twitter, we are able to realize trending news and people’s reactions to a selected event. Amazon will perceive user feedback or review on the particular product. BookMyShow will discover people’s reviews regarding the pic, which may be each positive or negative. Youtube may also analyze and perceive people’s viewpoints on a video.

Language could be a technique of communication with the assistance of that we are able to speak, scan and write. tongue process (NLP) is that the sub field of engineering science particularly computer science (AI) that's involved regarding enabling computers to grasp and method human language. we've numerous ASCII text file NLP tools however NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) scores terribly high once it involves the benefit of use and rationalization of the idea. the educational curve of Python is extremely quick and NLTK is written in Python therefore NLTK is additionally having excellent learning kit. NLTK has incorporated most of the tasks like tokenization, stemming, Lemmatization, Punctuation, Character Count, and Word count. it's terribly elegant and simple to figure with.

